
labels: ['NBS Warning', 'Information for Public']
paragraphs: Národná banka Slovenska (NBS) warns the public about the activities of AXE Capital Group SE, which offers investment opportunities at the following websites: https://www.instagram.com/axe.capital.group/ and https://www.facebook.com/AxeCapitalGroup/. Please note that this company is currently not subject to supervision by NBS. It is not authorised by NBS to conduct any activity in the Slovak financial market, nor is it recorded in any register maintained by NBS. Funds invested through this company are not covered by Slovakia’s Deposit Protection Fund1 or Investment Guarantee Fund.2 We continue to warn consumers interested in investing in the financial market to consider carefully before concluding a contract with a financial services provider and to check the provider against the list of authorised providers listed on the NBS website. AXE Capital Group SE has its registered office at Štúrova 27, 040 01 Košice (Staré Mesto district) and its company registration number (IČO) is 52 005 666. 1  In accordance with Act No 118/1996 on the protection of deposits (and amending certain laws), as amended. 2  In accordance with Act No 566/2001 on securities and investment services (and amending certain laws), as amended. National Bank of SlovakiaCommunications SectionImricha Karvaša 1, 813 25 BratislavaContact: press@nbs.sk Reproduction is permitted provided that the source is acknowledged.
links: ['https://www.instagram.com/axe.capital.group/', 'https://www.facebook.com/AxeCapitalGroup/.']
labels: ['NBS press release']
paragraphs: On 27 September the Bank Board of Národná banka Slovenska held its 17th meeting of 2022, chaired by NBS Governor Peter Kažimír. The Bank Board took note of the Bank’s Autumn 2022 Economic and Monetary Developments report, which was later presented at a press conference and published on the Bank’s website. The Bank Board assessed the extent of risks of a cyclical nature and approved the Bank’s September 2022 Macroprudential Commentary. The credit market is experiencing a strong upswing. Loans to households have long been growing strongly, and now so too are loans to firms. We expect that the current environment of rising interest rates, increasing living costs, and elevated uncertainty will act as a drag on loan demand in the coming period. Banks, however, are in a sufficiently sound position to cope with the potential losses associated with current risks. In this context, there is no need at present to adjust the countercyclical capital buffer (CCyB) rate. At the same time, the Bank continues to closely monitor risks to the Slovak banking sector. In the event of risks materialising and having an adverse impact on the financial sector, the Bank stands ready to reduce the CCyB rate to the extent necessary, so as to provide banks with leeway to cover potential excessive losses arising from these risks. National Bank of SlovakiaCommunications SectionImricha Karvaša 1, 813 25 BratislavaContact: press@nbs.sk Reproduction is permitted provided that the source is acknowledged.
links: []